We need to essentially clear the spreadsheet that we've collectively constructed over time, it's the "Value" one.

Something that humans lack the will or initiative to grasp is that WE make up the rules. Anything that results from a decision and becomes rule is our doing, so we can undo, redo, change, change back, etc. Far too much of the collective human consciousness is fearfully expecting someone else to fix it, we need to be realistic. Actually there are a few things we need to be:

Realistic and honest but trustworthy

Cancel rubbish like greed, self interest, ego, then things like distrust due to alterior motives won't cause the closing of vast possibilities, it won't be a consideration.

(I apologize in advance to those of faith, my intention is not to mock or disrespect anyone, this is what I believe)

Things like religion need to fall away and the truth must come out so people will understand without resentment. Humans need a firm hand, direction, motivation and honestly a healthy dose of crippling fear of the unknown will do the trick but at the cost of the current ceiling we're at. We can't open and actually USE our abilities if we're constantly either waiting for someone else to do it, or so paralyzed with fear that we do nothing altogether. It was a useful system and it did what was required for the time, but to advance we can't keep them, any of them, all the religions need to be scrapped.

Jacques Fresco devised the concept of a resource based economy where we fundementally return to value being assigned based on actual usefulness to the collective over the time it's expected to be necessary. Not arbitrary value attributed to things based on non-sensical metrics like whimsy.

We do actually need to work together, there were many civilizations of Neanderthal man until eventually they figured out how to progress, every advancement we've been through since has been degrees more difficult and corresponding degrees less time/resources available to complete it, we just don't have the time to go through trial and error for centuries, not even that many decades even! If we don't shelve, the selfish crap, come together as literally one unit and work as a team we won't make it. That's not apocalypse theory, it's just common sense, I'm not saying the sky is falling I'm saying we've got some really serious really difficult questions coming up and monumentally important decisions to make!

Also, to imagine this world as some silly rainbows and unicorns fairytale is misleading and counterproductive, everything we know and have ever known about reality is cold, hard, violent, unemotion, chaos, that won't change we need to be realistic about the roles we're all going to be playing in this world and unfortunately the person standing in the morning sun in a park near a lake painting a Fresco of the ducks playing is not likely to be one.
